the news houra is Sam Rose director of
planning for unra he live from London
thank you for being with us Sam so at
least two unra locations targeted in the
last few days can you tell us more about
the circumstances of these attacks first
and were there any warnings from the
Israelis absolutely thank you look the
the attack on the school in in noat
happened a couple of nights ago about
2:00 in in the morning 6,000 people
Sheltering in that school the majority
of these people women and and children
we've not been able to independently
verify the casualty numbers but we
believe between 35 and 45 people killed
and and there'll be higher numbers of
injures as well and we've all seen the
reports from the hospital which would
appear to indicate large numbers of
women and children among amongst the
dead we've not been able as unra yet to
access the the site after the incident
it requires proper bomb disposal and
mind clearance experts to go in as part
of that mission it's not been possible
yet and and and like you were just
hearing again the the stories of the or
the reports of this second attack on an
unra building in in Northern Gaz and if
that is if those reports are indeed true
and there's no reason to believe that
they're not that it's yet another
shocking attack on on on a un and UNR
premises in Gaz and these are protected
premises under international law it's
critical that all parties the conflict
respect the humanitarian character of
our premises it's not the first time we
hope and we pray that it will be the
last but the way this war is going we Fe
that it won't be indeed and we have seen
repeatedly unra buildings being uh
targeted in this conflict as our
correspondents noted there why is that
the Israelis claim at times that
Palestinian Fighters have been hiding
among civilians who are Sheltering in
these
facilities I mean I can't comment on on
Israel's military tactic but but I would
agree we are seeing
unprecedented uh levels of of attacks
and and incidents on un protected
premises I believe 180 unra premises now
in Gaza have been have been hit either
directly or or indirectly and and look I
I I think this is just emblematic of the
unprecedented nature and scale and
horror of of of this of this conflict
we've seen similar incidents in
conflicts in the past but they've been
they've been terrible they've been
tragic they they've led to civilian
casualties but but not on this scale
because we've never seen a conflict of
of of this scale or intensity in in Gaza
we we uh of course now um are uh looking
at a situation where the humanitarian
crisis in Gaza is only getting worse
every day Sam uh can you tell us about
the current Aid situation as you know it
how much Aid has gone into Gaza in the
past few days
getting worse than than ever we'll
recall that we were on the brink of a
famine 6 weeks 2 months ago when the
last report came out from Global
independent famine experts a new report
is out in the next couple of weeks or so
and it's inevitable that that report
will show a deterioration in
humanitarian conditions we've been able
to bring less Aid in in in the last six
weeks really than than any time since
about November December time and it's
not just the lack or or or The Limited
volume and quantities of supplies that
we've been able to bring in it's that
the population is yet again increasingly
vulnerable as a result of a mass Force
displacement over a million people have
left Rafa in the past uh in the in the
past month and and our ability to reach
them becomes increasingly difficult when
when they're on the move our networks
our infrastructure our own staff who are
themselves affected by by the
displacement have to move have to adjust
to support them and it's not just a
matter of of stopping a trucks from
entering Gaza is it Sam there are a
number of obstructions that's preventing
unra and other Aid organizations from
from doing their work and delivering the
assistance and and uh the aid the
humanitarian Aid that these people so
desperately
need absolutely I mean the only way that
we will put an end to the humanitarian
crisis is in gazra as if we're able to
put an end to the conflict everything
that we do right now in Gaza is
incredibly difficult incredibly
complicated in large part this is due to
the nature of the conflict and the fact
as your correspondent said a few minutes
ago that we're essentially seeing
bombardments and operations across all
areas of the Gaza Strip this means that
we have to coordinate very closely our
movement with the Israeli authorities it
means that our staff are increasingly
operating in extremely dangerous zones
as well Sam thank you so much for
talking to us Sam Rose from unra talking
to us there from London
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jaaz